We already talked about mindset previously,
and now you have a general sense of what we
do and who we serve.
This module isn't going to repeat any of
that.
What we're doing here is giving you the
vocabulary to match the conversations you're
already starting to have.
Terminology is different from any other kind
of training.
You're not going to absorb all of this in
one sitting, and that's completely normal.
Expect to come back to this video.
Expect to watch certain sections two or
three times.
The goal right now is familiarity, not
memorization.
The more calls you make, the more these terms
will start clicking into place naturally.
Let's get into it.
A distressed property is a home that's
either in rough physical shape or owned by
someone going through a hard situation in
life.
Maybe the roof is caving in.
Maybe the owner just lost their job.
Maybe someone passed away and left the house
to a family member who lives three states
away and has no idea what to do with it.
Think of it like this.
You know how sometimes you see a car on the
side of the road with the hood up, hazard
lights on, and nobody around?
That car isn't going to sell at full price
on a dealership lot.
Someone is going to come along, fix it up,
and resell it.
That's essentially what happens with
distressed properties.
We come in, we make a fast cash offer, and
we help the seller move on.
Why does this matter? Because every single
person we engage with is a potential
distressed property owner.
The first job in any conversation is to find
out if they're in that situation and to
make sure the right person at BMH takes them
through the next step.
When we say we buy as is, we mean we're not
asking the seller to fix anything.
No repairs, no cleaning, no staging.
We take the house exactly the way it is.
This is a huge relief for sellers who don't
have the money or the energy to fix things
up. On a call, a seller might say something
like,
The place needs a lot of work.
Or, I haven't been able to keep up with
repairs.
That's actually good news.
That's your signal to say, that's totally
fine.
We buy homes in any condition.
An off-market property is a home that is not
listed for sale anywhere publicly.
There's no sign in the yard.
There's no listing online.
The seller hasn't hired a real estate agent.
They may not have even decided they want to
sell yet.
This is the sweet spot for the BMH Group.
We reach out directly to homeowners before they
ever consider going the traditional route.
Think of it like getting a reservation at a
restaurant that hasn't even opened to the
public yet. You're in before anyone else
knows about it.
Now here's an important distinction.
On-market means the property is listed on
something called the MLS.
MLS stands for Multiple Listing Service.
It's a database that licensed real estate
agents use to post homes for sale.
When you see a house listed on Zillow or
Realtor.com, it almost always came from the
MLS.
Here's the thing. We don't target on-market
properties.
By the time a house hits the MLS, there's
usually an agent involved.
The price reflects the market and there's not
much room for us to make the numbers work.
If a seller on a call says, I already have
it listed with an agent or it's on Zillow,
that's an important flag.
Don't hang up, but do note it.
Sometimes listed properties don't sell and
that seller comes back around.
A listed property is simply one currently
for sale through an agent on the MLS.
An expired listing is one that was listed
but never sold.
The seller tried the traditional route and
it didn't work out.
Now they might be frustrated, more motivated,
and very open to a direct cash offer.
Expired listings can be great leads.
Days on market is how long a property has
been sitting on the MLS without selling.
A house listed for 200 days is a house the
seller is probably desperate to get rid of.
High days on market is a motivation signal.
FSBO means the seller is trying to sell the
house themselves without an agent.
They're not paying a commission.
They're handling everything directly.
This often means they're motivated and
willing to talk, which makes them a good
potential lead for us.
Now let's talk about what the BMH Group does
with the properties we put under contract.
Our primary strategy is wholesaling.
Imagine you find a garage sale where someone
is selling a rare collectible for $5
because they don't know what it's worth.
You know a collector who would pay $500 for
it.
So you make a deal with the garage sale
owner to buy it for $5.
Then you go sell it to your collector for
$500.
Your profit is the difference.
That's wholesaling in real estate.
We find a distressed property, get it under
contract at a price that works for the
seller's situation, and then we sell that
contract to an end buyer or cash buyer who
will renovate and resell or rent the
property.
We never have to actually close on the house
ourselves most of the time.
We just facilitate the deal.
When we wholesale, we do it through
something called an assignment of contract.
This is where we transfer our rights in the
purchase agreement to another buyer.
Instead of us closing on the property, the
end buyer closes on it.
Our fee for finding the deal and putting it
together is called the assignment fee.
Sometimes instead of assigning the contract,
we do what's called a double close.
This means we actually purchase the property
and then immediately sell it to the end
buyer in two back-to-back closings.
This is a little more involved, but it
protects our profit margin when needed.
Subject to means we purchase a property
subject to the existing mortgage staying in
place. The seller's loan doesn't get paid
off.
We take ownership, but the original mortgage
stays in the seller's name.
Think of it like taking over someone's car
payments.
Seller financing means the seller acts as
the bank.
Instead of us going to a lender, we make
payments directly to the seller over time.
You likely won't negotiate these on calls,
but knowing they exist lets you confidently
say, our team has several ways to structure
this depending on the situation.
We target distressed, off-market properties.
We buy as-is for cash.
We primarily wholesale, which means we get a
property under contract and sell that
contract to an end buyer for a profit.
The MLS is the public listing database
agents use, and we generally avoid on-market
properties. Expired listings and FSBO
sellers are worth noting as potential leads.
The first job in any conversation is
identifying motivated sellers and getting them
talking.
That's your core vocabulary.
Hang on to these terms.
You'll hear them again and again out in the
field.
Let's keep moving.